[INS] Tutorial -  Ampere-Optimized AI frameworks on COP-ARM (#2710)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/setup-ampere-ai-framework-arm-instances/index.mdx

---
meta:

>   title: Setting up Ampere-Optimized AI frameworks on Scaleway COP-ARM Instances

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  title: Setting up Ampere-optimized AI frameworks on Scaleway COP-ARM Instances
```

>   description: Discover how to setup Ampere-Optimized AI frameworks on Scaleway COP-ARM Instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: Discover how to setup Ampere-optimized AI frameworks on Scaleway COP-ARM Instances.
```

>   description: Discover how to setup Ampere-optimized AI frameworks on Scaleway COP-ARM Instances.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  description: Discover how to set up Ampere-optimized AI frameworks on Scaleway COP-ARM Instances.
```

content:

>   h1: Setting up Ampere-Optimized AI frameworks on Scaleway COP-ARM Virtual Instances

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  h1: Setting up Ampere-optimized AI frameworks on Scaleway COP-ARM Virtual Instances
```

>   paragraph: Discover how to setup Ampere-Optimized AI frameworks on Scaleway COP-ARM Instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  paragraph: Discover how to setup Ampere-optimized AI frameworks on Scaleway COP-ARM Instances.
```

>   paragraph: Discover how to setup Ampere-optimized AI frameworks on Scaleway COP-ARM Instances.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  paragraph: Discover how to set up Ampere-optimized AI frameworks on Scaleway COP-ARM Instances.
```

tags: compute arm ai ampere pytorch onnx tensorflow
categories:
  - instances
dates:
  validation: 2024-02-09
  posted: 2024-02-09
---

Ampere AI frameworks provide a comprehensive set of tools and libraries for building and deploying AI models on ARM-based Instances.
With the increasing popularity of ARM architecture in data centers and cloud environments, these frameworks can lead to improved performance and efficiency for AI workloads.

> In this tutorial, we will walk through the process of setting up and using Ampere-Optimized AI fameworks on [Scaleway COP-ARM Instances](https://www.scaleway.com/en/cost-optimized-instances-based-on-arm/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we will walk through the process of setting up and using Ampere-optimized AI fameworks on [Scaleway COP-ARM Instances](https://www.scaleway.com/en/cost-optimized-instances-based-on-arm/).
```

<Message type="requirement">
  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
  - You have [configured your SSH key](/console/project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)
</Message>

## Setting up the COP-ARM Instance

> 1. Navigate to your [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com/) Once logged in, click **Instances**, then select **Create Instance** to get started.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to your [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com/). Once logged in, click **Instances**, then select **Create Instance** to get started.
```

2. Choose your preferred Availability Zone.
    <Message type="note">
      Currently, COP-ARM Instances are exclusively available in the **PARIS2** zone.
    </Message>

> 3. Select **ARM64** architecture in the drop-down, then select the COP-ARM offer that best fits your requirements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Select the **ARM64** architecture in the drop-down, then select the COP-ARM offer that best fits your requirements.
```

    <Message type="tip">
        Make sure your Instance has enough resources (CPU, RAM, etc.) for running AI workloads effectively.
    </Message>
4. Select the **Ubuntu 22.04 Jammy Jellyfish** image as your operating system.

> 5. Adjust the size of your system volume to meet the needs for your models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Adjust the size of your system volume to meet the needs of your models.
```

> 5. Adjust the size of your system volume to meet the needs for your models.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. Adjust the size of your system volume to meet the needs of your models.
```

> 6. Leave the IP settings as default, ensuring that a public IPv4 address is assigned to the Instance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
6. Leave the default IP settings, ensuring that a public IPv4 address is assigned to the Instance.
```

> 7. Enter a name for your Instance to easily identify it. You can go with the default value if it conveniences you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Enter a name for your Instance to easily identify it, or use the default suggested name.
```

> 7. Enter a name for your Instance to easily identify it. You can go with the default value if it conveniences you.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
7. Enter a name for your Instance to easily identify it.
```

8. Verify your SSH key fingerprint is shown. If not, click **Add SSH key** and paste the SSH key you have [pre-generated](/console/project/how-to/create-ssh-key) for secure access to the Instance.

> 9. Review the cost estimation and, once satisfied, click **Create Instance** to proceed. Allow some time for the Instance to start. Once it is up and running, copy its public IP address.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
9. Review the cost estimation, and click **Create Instance** to proceed. The Instance may take a few minutes to start. Once it is up and running, copy its public IP address.
```

## Installing an Ampere-Optimized AI framework

1. Use SSH to access the system by specifying the user as `root` followed by the public IP address of your Instance.
    ```bash
    ssh root@<your_instance_ip>
    ```

> 2. Execute the following command to update the package lists and install Docker once logged into the Instance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Execute the following command to update the package lists and install Docker once logged in to the Instance.
```

    ```bash
    apt update && apt install -y docker.io
    ```
    <Message type="tip">

>       While the Docker installation completes, visit the [Ampere AI DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/u/amperecomputingai) and select your desired Ampere-optimized framework, whether it is PyTorch, ONNX Runtime, or TensorFlow.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      While the Docker installation completes, visit the [Ampere AI DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/u/amperecomputingai) and select one of the three available Ampere-optimized frameworks: PyTorch, ONNX Runtime, or TensorFlow.
```

      In this tutorial we use the PyTorch image, you can adapt it towards your requirements.
    </Message>

3. Run the Ampere-optimized PyTorch image. To do so, execute the following command in your Instance's shell:
    ```bash
    docker run --privileged=true --name ampere-torch --network host -it amperecomputingai/pytorch:latest
    ```
    The selected image will be automatically pulled, and a Docker container will be initialized. You should see the Ampere AI ASCII art indicating successful initialization. 
    <Lightbox src="scaleway-ampere-ai-pytorch.webp" alt="" size="large" />
4. Import your AI library of choice in Python to verify the success of the installation.
    ```bash
    python3 -c "import torch"
    ```

## Conclusion

> By following this tutorial, you have successfully deployed an Ampere-Optimized framework on your COP-ARM Instance. By running your AI workloads on COP-ARM Instances, you can leverage the power of ARM architecture for your AI workloads, potentially achieving better performance and efficiency. Go further by fine-tuning your deployment with different models and configurations to optimize your setup further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By following this tutorial, you have successfully deployed an Ampere-optimized framework on your COP-ARM Instance. By running your AI workloads on COP-ARM Instances, you can leverage the power of ARM architecture for your AI workloads, potentially achieving better performance and efficiency. Go further by fine-tuning your deployment with different models and configurations to optimize your setup further.
```
